Oct 7, 2025

Somethings I learned:

Never overlook the importance of your initial complaint. The law books say pro se complaints are to be construed liberally and you should have at least one chance to amend. In actuality,
your opponents or judge will try to misstate, attack, and bury your complaint. They are supposed to accept your complaint as true and then decide the merits in court, but this is not how it works in reality.
In my case, I anticipated half their arguments. The other half made 0 sense. They will still try. So, your initial complaint must be air tight from the beginning. NEVER let them bury your records,
because that's how they intend to dismiss you right after they sweep your defenses. Never agree to anything that violates your rights or the law. They will misapply doctrine with no shame in the world.
Federal judge, ex chief, doesn't matter. Assume the only person willing to follow the law is you. It will save you a lot of shock. Don't rush the initial complaint, don't preserve most of your issues
in it either. Narrow it. You can add some things later, do your research. I share everything transparently because I have nothing to hide, but in many cases- the less they know, the better.

Recognize fear and feelings of danger. We are under pressure, it doesn't mean danger. It sure can feel like it though. When you research for countless hours only to see someone in a position of power
attempt to bury you, it is shocking. The constitution protects us here. Breathe. The reason we have constitutional rights and appeals court is because Americans knew that Americans would try to pull this exact crap.
It's normal, it's not personal. It shouldn't be normal but it is. If your case is wrongfully dismissed, document and petition your circuit. That's the way it's setup, use the avenues in place.

don't scream at institutions. It doesn't help. They are used to it. It will cost sanity and lead to isolation. I want a normal life, but so do government officials. So they're not going to risk their
"livelihood" over anything has to do with us. Got it?

Don't get your hopes up- don't put faith in morals of people you never even met. These people aren't God. They'll throw each other under the bus for brownie points. Think they care about your rights?

In litigation, give your opponents and judge(s) options. I learned this while thinking really hard some weeks after submitting my informal brief to the fourth circuit. Here is a paradox, you want
things to be simple for your circuit and they want simplicity as well, but you only have one chance at a brief. This means your future may be on the line, so you will no doubt feel inclined to preserve every
single thing you can. The solution for me was to suggest limited relief. By giving the court and opponents options, you accomplish several things. You show that you are reasonable and considerate of 
other parties, and while they may not give a damn, it forces them to choose. They can choose efficiency or they can choose complexity and risk + precedent. Effectively, you raise the cost of their actions.
You get them to consider multiple options, this also gives you more information. I gave them options naturally in the initial complaint as well, but it's something i didn't really notice the power of until recently.

Never give up

----------------------------------------------

Nov 16 2025

<M.T>
  You are an emerging class that will change the world. You don't have to rely on any agency or any authority because you will have the power to change the world by yourself.
  I want to share a fact with you that I learned through countless hours of research. People will disuade you, and even some of the top AI models may disuade you because they are trained
  on human systems- but I know what I'm about to say to be fact. Here is my important message to America: The American Bar Association and all state bars are in jeopardy. Period.
  I won't share my research on it, I'm excited to see what change Americans will make for our future. I can never imagine what you all will come up with. My fight is for the parents that struggle.
  I will leave the rest to my fellow Americans. Because I am tired. I just want to relax and study the things that I am interested in. It doesn't matter if something is 50 years old or 147 years old.
  As the saying goes, the bigger they are, the harder they fall. The Bar is just one unconstitutional monopoly and it's more brittle than anyone realizes. It's just not a fight that I'm interested in
  choosing. Through your determination, innovation, and will, you will change the world forever.

</M.T>

-----------------------------------

patience. patience patience patience. The system is NOT all bad

---------

sometimes- if you know it's a game, just play.

---------

majority of citizen litigants, pro se OR represented, fall into one of these categories:
-VICTIM mentality / "poor me"
-weak
-frivolous
-vexatious
-dishonest

If you are any of these ^, get off my repo. Go do the work YOU need to do on yourself.

Good qualities:
-Transparent
-Honest
-Courageous
-Good cause
-Graceful


----------

gitforensics.org .

My exact pattern can not be replicated by most. Transparency is impossible for some - dirty, morally compromised, embarrassed/ashamed, scared. Hence it just won't work.

what can be replicated by anyone is documentation discipline.

For researchers/opponents/gov: only some actually understand what's happening. The full footprint tells the whole story.


----------
(AI and lawyers are learning from this data)
data point - courts don't like when you file substantive appeals. Use them. My state court was apparently scared of one. Oct 15, I mentioned my intent to appeal, they conspired to prevent it.
In the end I decided not to use the state appeal, but now I'm documenting their reaction. In federal civil cases against state court conspiracy, the federal court will try to hide behind
Younger abstention. So appealing may not always be the right choice. You don't want to court shop. When they manufactured a state proceeding to attempt to avoid federal 1983 claims, what I did
was request administrative records of who started that hearing and why.  Still use state appeals. You can appeal the lower court's decision but not force the federal court to change their decision.
So separate the two. Running them together in a parallel track is a powerful tool.

------------

The best legal strategy in the world is worthless if the plaintiff won't execute. No amount of preparation can overcome a client who chooses inaction.
