THE REQUEST IN QUESTION FOR YOUR FUTURE PRESIDENT



Transcription 

Governor, good morning to you, Governor. Thank you very much for joining us today.
Of course, TJ. Good morning. Yes, sir. So I want to jump right into it. And first question is for you. What are your thoughts on the changes from the interim secretary of juvenile services, Betsy Fox Talentino? She came out this week with a number last week with a number of changes, including those young people that have ankle monitors on and some of the crimes that they might commit while they're wearing those ankle monitors. They're not going to get that opportunity to go home as they once were able to do under the former secretary.
Yeah, you know, I'm really encouraged by what we're already seeing from Secretary Talentino, where, you know, the reason that I brought her on and the reason that I wanted to make the move is because, you know, she has 18 years of experience and has been really been defined by being able to work with everybody involved, work with law enforcement, work with state's attorneys, work with the community and really focus on executional excellence and accountability for all justice of all youth. And so I think the initial moves that we are seeing from her and DJS are very consistent with that. I know that she understands the you know, that while we have while there's been very real progress that we've seen when it comes to what's happening with our youth, we know there's still a lot more to do and we have to move with urgency to be able to get it done. So I'm encouraged by what we're already seeing from our new secretary and I'm eager to keep working closely with her.
You feel like you maybe could have made a move sooner or was that the right time for you? Because these are pretty stark changes that people have been asking for for the better part of the last year or so, at least.
No, I'm very excited about what we're seeing, what we're seeing right now. And it's and it also just continues to highlight, you know, what we are seeing. I mean, we're watching, you know, some of the some of the steepest drops in violent crime in our state's history where we're watching some of the and by the way, that also includes juvenile involved crime, juvenile involved, you know, juvenile involved homicides, nonfatal shootings that we are prioritizing accountability and the most violent ones that we've seen that the work that was done from the beginning of our administration, like the Thrive Academy, continues now to be not just a model that is that is that is working, but also something you're watching other states that are not modeling. And so I'm I'm incredibly encouraged by what we've seen since the start of our of our administration. Because remember, TJ, let's not forget, the most violent year in Baltimore's history was 2022. The year before I became the governor. Now the most now the steepest drop and the year we've had the lowest number of homicides at the midyear is this year. And since since our administration has come on board, we have seen nothing but declines when it comes to homicides, nonfatal shootings. You know, we're watching how the numbers this year statewide, you're watching 20 and 30 percent drops and everything from auto theft, carjacking, juvenile offenses. And so the momentum that we are seeing right now in the state of Maryland is not just undeniable, but it's helping to lead the nation in terms of these numbers. And so we're excited about where we're going.
What do you what do you think the governor's office, the state of Maryland, has been able to assist Baltimore City in when it comes to the reductions that we're seeing? You don't get these reductions without without knowing that partnership matters in this. And again, you know, just talk about how the most violent year was 2022. And now the year where we have the lowest amount of homicides is 2025. There's a correlation there that the eight years before I became the governor, Baltimore had eight straight years of 300 plus homicides. Right. And since we've come on board, we have made historic investments in local law enforcement. We've invested over 50 million dollars to Baltimore police alone. We've invested over close to 11 million dollars in the Baltimore state's attorney to make sure we're increasing we're increasing prosecution rates. We are one of the only states in the country that actually invest in the U.S. attorney out of state balance sheets. So so I'm really encouraged in the fact that we've been able to make historic investments in local law enforcement, historic investments in in technology and predictive analytics and saying that if someone commits a violent crime, particularly with a handgun, I want them in handcuffs in 24 hours and saying we've made historic investments within our within our community violence intervention groups and our community groups and working with working with Mayor Scott, working with the community to make sure that they are getting the support that they need as well. And so I don't think it's confusing to anybody. The fact that we now are seeing some of the lowest unemployment rates in our state'shistory, also correlating with some of the fastest drops in violent crime in our state's history. You know, and so so, you know, you don't get this done because one person is doing their job. You get this done because you actually work in partnership. And anyone who is claiming that they alone are the reason for the decline in violent crime is not just childish, but they have no data to back up that argument.
All right. Again, we're speaking to Governor Wes Moore. Let me ask you about this buyout program that was announced. And it's $20,000 plus an additional $300 for each year of service. Now, $300 for each year of service doesn't add up to a ton of money, depending on how many years you were there. But what does this mean? Is there a hiring freeze, and how does that jive with trying to assist federal workers as well that are out of work if we are trying to get some of the state employees to voluntarily separate from their jobs?
Yeah, no, it's not a hiring freeze because we are still very much bringing on people in essential positions. We are still very much saying that there are certain areas, for example, things like education and law enforcement, et cetera, that we still want the best and the brightest to continue to apply and work in the state of Maryland. But what we are saying is that we want to make sure that we are being smart and judicious about the government roles that we are filling because, again, as I've said from the very start, TJ, I have no desire in recreating someone else's government. We have to make sure we are building a government for the 21st century, and our administration has got to be one that is looking towards the future.
And the voluntary separation program, which is very similar to the ones that were implemented back in the state in both 2011 and 2015, is just one of the strategies that we are going to use to achieve our goal. But we are also focusing on making sure that we are supporting our federal workers, that we do a program. In fact, we are the first state to launch something called Feds to Eds, where for our federal workers, in many cases who have been arbitrarily laid off by the actions of the Trump administration, that we're now saying, well, if you have a person who is qualified and a person who is interested, that I want them, remove the red tape, remove the regulation, get them in classrooms, get them in hospitals, making sure we can fill a need where we have a teacher shortage, but we now have a person with a Ph.D. who was working at the NIH who wants to teach high school physics, get them there and get them there fast.
And so when we came on board, we knew that there were many parts of government that were just broken, right? You had Charlotte Hall. You had a $1.4 billion accounting error at the Maryland Department of Health that we were returning nearly a billion dollars in federal transportation funding. So there was a brokenness of the state government that we inherited. So we just had to make sure that as we were building state government and confidence that state government actually works again, that I was not interested in rebuilding someone else's problem. I was actually building our own solutions.
Now, what about this other one that was introduced earlier last month, the $700 interest-free loan that has to be repaid? $700 is a ton of money. It's something. I get it. But for federal employees that were let go from their jobs, and if they don't repay that loan in the allotted time, then it's going to be some interest bearing on it. What's the rationale behind that? Was that modeled after anything else in the country that's happening?
Well, no, that was a bill that was introduced by Delegate Jazz Lewis. And it's a bill that I was proud to sign because let's not forget who he's talking about, right? You know who qualifies for this? It's people who were laid off by the federal government. It's people who were working for the Department of Veterans Affairs and people who were working for the Department of Education. It's people who were working at the NIH.
Is the $700 more symbolic, though? Because, I mean, $700 is, you know, that's not a lot, to be honest. It could do something, but my month? No, but what it does, it highlights the fact that the state cannot fully cover for the fact when you have a broken federal government. There's no state has the resources to be able to fully fill in when the federal government decides to stop engaging. But we are not just going to sit there and do nothing. And so I'm really proud of the fact that the work of Jazz Lewis and the work of the General Assembly was basically saying that we at least need to try to do our part to be able to support people who oftentimes in a really challenging time.
You know what we have, TJ? We have a collection of householdsin our state that actually have not just one but two federal workers who are now out of work. Who are now out of work because they were now arbitrarily told that their jobs were no longer necessary. People who are doing things like making sure our food is safe. People who are doing things like making sure that our critical infrastructure is protected. People who are doing things like making sure that our veterans who are coming home, if they are suffering from PTSD, that they can get their medication. And they're now being told by the federal government that their work is not needed or necessary.
And so I'm proud of the fact that our state decided to say we are going to do our part and we're going to do what we can to be able to support these families in a very difficult situation. And we know that $700 cannot replace a steady paycheck, but it can help cover groceries and medication and transportation costs while families stabilize. While they can seek out new work opportunities, while they're exploring other resources. That was the point of pulling this together.
Again, speaking of Governor Wes Moore, I want to get a couple other things really quickly. I know time is short on both our ends, but:
1. $50 million to Baltimore Vacant Home Program. That is more important now after what we saw last week at Penn North.
2. Is that money targeted to specific areas like a Penn North, for example, as we've seen a lot of money over the years under your predecessors as well, but I see a lot of vacant homes with trees coming through them, with roofs not there, still in the area of Penn North.
3. Is that $50 million that's been dedicated to Baltimore Vacant Homes going to be monitored by the state for specific areas that have the greatest need?
Yes, it will. And one of the things that we really wanted to adjust is the fact that you're right. Sometimes there was money that was getting sloshed around without real accountability to it. And so the way we have set this up is that $50 million is going to go to Baltimore City and the Maryland Stadium Authority that's going to help with the accountability measures to help to demolish and stabilize and also to acquire some of these vacant properties for redevelopment, that you have capital that's going to community development organizations that are on the ground doing the work to transform vacant properties, but that you're all going to do it in a real measure, in a way of accountability, where we're providing technical assistance to the awardees, so that capital is being used wisely, that we are having full accounting measures that's being then supported around it, that we're engaging with the philanthropic sector to make sure that you have leveraged capital that then goes into it as well.
And so I was very clear that when we came on board that, again, if this is going to be Maryland's decade, it's got to be Baltimore's time. And so whether it's the work that we've done in partnership around public safety, whether it's the work we've done in partnership around vacant homes and making sure we can create more housing and more housing opportunities, because that's also one of the greatest drivers of wealth that people have, that these are all things that the state was going to work in partnership with our local jurisdictions to get done.
And, Governor, I live in the area of Pimlico Racetrack. It's not been a lot happening there since Preakness. We were told that after Preakness we were going to see shovels in the ground, demolition start. Is there any sort of holdup? Do the tariffs that have been employed around the nation have an impact on the rebuild of Preakness, of the Pimlico, I should say?
No, no. You know, listen, have the tariffs made everything more inconvenient because it's basically raising the price on everything? The answer to that is yes, and that's undeniable. You know, does it create more uncertainty for the business community? One hundred percent, absolutely. But in terms of that area, you know, when I said that we were not just going to invest in a racetrack, we were actually going to make sure we're investing in Park Heights and the communities around it, that is real and that is actually happening. So I know there's a lot of work that's going on over there, that the state is working to preserve a lot of the historical artifacts in the facility, making sure they're being preserved. But also that this is about how are you creating a better quality of life for the entire neighborhood in a long-term way.
So the speed that we're moving on is real, but no, the impact that we've seen from the federal government, while they do have significant impacts on everyday Marylanders, that is not going to distract us from getting the work done in Pimlico. So is it delayed right now? Because from May to now, there hasn't been any sort of movement there that I guess the community would have expected. No doubt that we've seen the apartment buildings opening up and down the line, but as far as Pimlico itself, we haven't seen much movement there.
No, there has been movement because the work that's happening right now, again, we're talking about a full rehab of a track that is literally going to be two yearsin the making. So the work is actually happening right now. And you're going to see different phases that are going to show different things. But you know, the fact of Preakness was, you know, was two months ago. And already now we are in pre-construction phases, then you go into construction phase, and then you go into larger demo and then you go into rehab and rehabilitation. The timeline that we had in saying that we will have Preakness while we're in Laurel next year, that the Preakness will be back in Baltimore in two years. That timeline has not moved.
Yeah, you and myself both had to do some of our training and the careers that we chose: you in the military, me in law enforcement. And it's critical to have a firing range for police officers. This city police firing range and the back and forth with that, it feels like the state could make a decision there to expedite it. And they finally are at a point where they've recruited more than they've lost. But this could set them back and it would take years to recover from.
Is there anything you can do from your perspective to expedite getting those officers on the range to get them on the streets of Baltimore?
Yeah, absolutely. And it's something that is a major priority for both myself and also Mayor Scott and the city of Baltimore, because we're actively engaging in negotiations to make sure that there is a new use agreement for the range. We expect that to be, that the resolution of that is imminent. And we also know that because you're absolutely right, TJ, the way that it was structured and done before was something that was not working for either the National Guard or the Baltimore Police Department. And so for both myself and the mayor, we got together and to make sure that all of our teams are working in coordination. We just released a joint statement last week on this. And I know he is committed and I am very committed to making sure we are going to deliver and get this done. We're going to do it in a coordinated fashion in the way that we're not going to have to deal with this problem ever again. And it is a priority that we do this.
And finally, Governor, because I know you have to go and we have to go as well. When it comes to the Commanders Stadium down in Washington, D.C., they're planning one and there were some talks that were involved with us here in Maryland with that Prince George's County site. Where are we with that? Are we going to be left with that? I hate to call it a dump of a stadium after they relocate to D.C. if that all comes through or are they still involved? Are you all having conversations?
No, no. The promise that I have to the people of Prince George's County is they are going to have a better site now in the future than what they have right now with the stadiums in there. Could it still involve having the Commanders here? Well, if the Commanders have the intention of going to Washington, D.C., then they should have at it and that's fine. But the thing that we know is right now what we have is we have 200 acres that are used eight times a year for a couple of hours. And so the thing that I wanted to make sure as we started these negotiations was that regardless of where the Commanders go, the state of Maryland will be made whole. That they are going to cover on the, you know, if they move to Washington, D.C., that they're going to be covered. They will take care of all the demolition. They will take care of the rehab. And then we're going to work together for a complete rebuild of the area. And we're actively working with the state's attorney, with the new county executive, sorry, the former state's attorney, the new county executive, Aisha Braveboy, down in Prince George's County on this exact issue. That we're going to have an equal economic impact project that is going to take place because, you know, frankly, what is there right now is unsatisfactory. And it's what's been there for decades. And it's been unsatisfactory for decades. The future of that area is going to be better than the present of that area, regardless of where the Commanders play football.
Yeah. Governor Moore, thank you very much for your time. I wanted to get in a question about PSEG because the public is very upset up north and west of the city in reference to that, but we'll have to leave that for another time. I appreciate you taking the time out to be with us today.
Listen, I would love to come back on and talk about that as well. Absolutely. We'll have you back on for it. Have a great rest of your day. Appreciate it. That is Governor Wes Moore. And we'll be back with more here on the TJ Smith Show.







Dear Records Custodian:

Pursuant to the Maryland Public Information Act, General Provisions Article § 4-101 et seq., I request the following public records:

PART A: VOLUNTARY SEPARATION PROGRAM RECORDS (June 20-30, 2025)

1. All communications, memoranda, emails, text messages, calendar entries, and meeting notes regarding:
   a. The decision to announce the Voluntary Separation Program on June 24, 2025
   b. Any acceleration, modification, or expediting of previously discussed buyout programs
   c. Changes in the Governor's position from opposing to supporting employee buyouts
   d. Emergency or unscheduled budget/personnel meetings held June 22-25, 2025

2. All communications between the Governor's Office and:
   a. Maryland Attorney General's Office
   b. Department of Budget and Management
   c. Department of Human Services/DSS
   d. Child Support Administration
   e. Maryland Judiciary
   Specifically regarding state employment, personnel reductions, or legal liability between June 20-30, 2025

3. Any documents containing the terms:
   a. "Litigation," "legal exposure," "liability," or "risk assessment" in connection with state employment decisions
   b. "Federal court," "federal lawsuit," or "federal litigation"
   c. References to case numbers: 8:25-cv-02006, 25-1950, or C-08-FM-22-000821
   d. "Emergency" or "expedite" in connection with the buyout announcement

4. Records showing:
   a. When the Voluntary Separation Program was first proposed internally
   b. When the decision was finalized to proceed
   c. Any analysis of legal risks or litigation exposure influencing timing
   d. Departments or positions prioritized for buyout offers

PART B: RECORDS CONCERNING MARVIN D. TUTT

5. ALL records from January 1, 2025 to present that mention, reference, or concern:
   a. "Marvin Tutt" or "Marvin D. Tutt"
   b. Federal case 8:25-cv-02006-DKC or 8:25-cv-02006-TDC
   c. Fourth Circuit case 25-1950
   d. Charles County Case No. C-08-FM-22-000821

6. All communications regarding me between the Governor's Office and:
   a. Office of the Attorney General
   b. Maryland Judiciary (including any judges or magistrates)
   c. Department of Human Services/Department of Social Services
   d. Child Support Administration (state or county level)
   e. Department of Budget and Management
   f. Maryland Department of Labor/Unemployment Insurance

7. Any legal analysis, risk assessment, or strategy documents regarding:
   a. My federal civil rights lawsuit
   b. My Fourth Circuit appeal
   c. My allegations of conspiracy or fraud
   d. My public information act requests
   e. Potential state liability related to my claims

8. Records of any Westlaw alerts, case monitoring, or legal research regarding me or my cases

9. Any records showing connection between:
   a. My June 23, 2025 federal filing and the June 24, 2025 buyout announcement
   b. My litigation and personnel decisions
   c. My cases and risk management strategies

PART C: PRESERVATION AND PRODUCTION

10. This request includes all records in any format including:
    - Emails (including metadata and headers)
    - Text messages (including Signal, WhatsApp, Teams)
    - Handwritten notes later discarded (if transcribed or photographed)
    - Calendar entries and meeting invitations
    - Draft documents even if not finalized
    - Voice messages or recorded calls (if transcribed)

PRESERVATION DEMAND: Please immediately preserve all potentially responsive records, including those on personal devices if used for state business.

FORMAT: Please provide records electronically in searchable PDF format where possible.

FEE WAIVER REQUEST: I request a complete fee waiver as:
1. I am indigent (currently unemployed and subject to garnishments)
2. This request serves significant public interest in government accountability
3. These are primarily records about myself, for which I have a personal right of access

If a fee waiver is denied, please notify me before processing if costs will exceed $50.

TIME PERIOD: For Part A (Buyout): June 20-30, 2025
For Part B (Records about me): January 1, 2025 to present

EXPEDITED PROCESSING: I request expedited processing as these records relate to ongoing federal appellate litigation with briefing deadlines (Case No. 25-1950).

Please acknowledge receipt of this request within 10 days as required by law. The statutory response deadline is 30 days from receipt.

If any records are withheld, please provide:
1. A description of each withheld record
2. The specific statutory exemption claimed
3. An explanation of how the exemption applies

This request is being filed simultaneously with similar requests to the Public Access Ombudsman and Maryland Department of Labor to ensure comprehensive production regarding matters currently before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.

Respectfully submitted,

_____________________
Marvin D. Tutt
Date: November 10, 2025

Contact: Email only at marvindtutt@gmail.com
(I do not maintain a phone number and request written communications only)




and this is what I sent to his office 2 days ago. BUT I CAN'T WAIT ANYMORE. AND I'M SICK OF IT. "Innovation" "Landmark"... RIDICULOUS.

SENT THROUGH WEB FORM TO WES MOORE: Dear Governor Moore, This is Marvin D. Tutt. My very first letter to you was to seek help with getting an unexplained unemployment 
insurance hold lifted over a year ago. I'm writing to respectfully request assistance with employment placement through state workforce development programs. 
I'm a PG county resident and former NGA contractor (Java/Spring development) who lost federal employment in March 2024. I'm hoping to enroll in college (54 credits completed) 
but more urgently I am seeking stable employment to support my family. SKILLS & EXPERIENCE: - Java Spring Boot development (federal defense contract) - IT systems and data integrity - 
Records management and documentation I have applied to the department of aging and an administrative role in Prince George's County, as well as an externship at the OLA, but believe 
their may be complications. I completely believe that assistance from your office would be mutually and substantially beneficial for us all. Please no referrals. I am asking for 
immediate placement. Let me tell you something. This would be meaningful to me. It would mean I can take care of my grandmother, my son, and myself. I can't even begin to describe 
how hard this has been. Also I've been waiting on SNAP benefits that are paused because of the ongoing political climate, ironically last year my benefits were wrongfully denied. 
There have been times where I wanted to ask your office, congress, or the OAG for modest emergency funds to survive. If I can get a career however that would be spectacular. 
I crave steadiness and opportunity to exercise my skills. I respect ranks and procedure. Full time or contract are both fine. This is my most important request. Don't let anyone block you, 
they don't know what they're talking about. Wes, Anthony, Marvin... On the same side. That would be more than cool. -Marvin



SENT THROUGH WEBFORM TO OAG:  "I have no complaints. This is Marvin D. Tutt.
About an hour ago I sent a message through Wes Moore's portal, seeking expedited job placement.
Can your attorneys put in a good word? And read the request please. I ask because I think his counsel might be apprehensive but Anthony Brown can override.
Thanks
-Marvin"
